added perf test for 1.22 (#15196)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/deployment/performance-and-scalability/index.md

the system. The Istio control plane component, Istiod, configures
the data plane. The data plane and control plane have distinct performance concerns.

## Performance summary for Istio 1.22

The [Istio load tests](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/{{< source_branch_name >}}/perf/load) mesh consists

> of **1000** services and **2000** sidecars with 70,000 mesh-wide requests per second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of **1000** services and **2000** pods in Istio service mesh with 70,000 mesh-wide requests per second.
```

### CPU and memory

> Since the sidecar proxy performs additional work on the data path, it consumes CPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the proxy (either ztunnel or waypoint or sidecar) performs additional work on the data path, it consumes CPU
```

> and memory. In Istio 1.22, a proxy consumes about 0.5 vCPU per 1000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and memory. In Istio 1.22, a sidecar proxy consumes about 0.5 vCPU per 1000
```

Reviewer: @Shuayb1 do we have stats here for ztunnel and waypoint?

Author: No, I didn't get that stat

immediately. This process adds to the queue wait time of the next request and affects
average and tail latencies. The actual tail latency depends on the traffic pattern.

### Latency for Istio 1.22

Inside the mesh, a request traverses the client-side proxy and then the server-side

> proxy. In the default (i.e. ambient mode) configuration of Istio 1.22,

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the default configuration is ambient mode, so maybe this should just say ambient mode, or maybe it's the default ambient mode (just L4?).

the two proxies add about 0.17 ms and 0.20 ms to the 90th and 99th percentile latency, respectively, over the baseline data plane latency. Waypoint is better than sidecar.
We obtained these results using the [Istio benchmarks](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/{{< source_branch_name >}}/perf/benchmark)
for the `http/1.1` protocol, with a 1 kB payload at 1000 requests per second using 1,2,4,8,16,32,64 client connections, 2 proxy workers and mutual TLS enabled.

Note: This testing was performed on the [CNCF Community Infrastructure Lab](https://github.com/cncf/cluster). Different hardware will give different values.

<br><img width="90%" style="display: block; margin: auto;"
    src="istio-1.22.0-fortio-90.png"
    alt="P90 latency vs client connections"
    caption="P90 latency vs client connections"
/>

> <p><h2 style="text-align: center;"> P90 latency vs client connections </h2></p><br>

Reviewer 3: Why is the header below the graph? I would expect either something that is small (not h2) or for it to be above

Reviewer: agreed, i got confused a bit on this too

<img width="90%" style="display: block; margin: auto;"
    src="istio-1.22.0-fortio-99.png"
    alt="P99 latency vs client connections"
    caption="P99 latency vs client connections"
/>
<p><h2 style="text-align: center;"> P99 latency vs client connections </h2></p>

- `no_mesh` Client pod directly calls the server pod, no sidecars are present.

> - `sidecar` Client and server sidecars are present with telemetry configured by default. This is the default Istio configuration.
> - `ambient: L4` ambient:ambient
> - `ambient: L4+L7` waypoint:waypoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ambient: L4` default ambient mode with the secure overlay L4 only.
- `ambient: L4+L7` default ambient mode with the secure overlay L4 and waypoints enabled for the namespace.
- `sidecar` Client and server sidecars are present with telemetry configured by default. This is the default Istio configuration.
```

immediately. This process adds to the queue wait time of the next request and affects
average and tail latencies. The actual tail latency depends on the traffic pattern.

### Latency for Istio 1.22

Inside the mesh, a request traverses the client-side proxy and then the server-side
proxy. In the default ambient mode (with L4) configuration of Istio 1.22,

> the two ztunnel proxies add about 0.17 ms and 0.20 ms to the 90th and 99th percentile latency, respectively, over the baseline data plane latency. Ambient mode with L4 and L7 is better than sidecar.

Reviewer 4: In ambient, L4 is done through ztunnel.. so any L4 performance through ztunnel and not sidecar should be clarified that way. I believe the highlight is to compare ztunnel to sidecar performance.

We obtained these results using the [Istio benchmarks](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/{{< source_branch_name >}}/perf/benchmark)
for the `http/1.1` protocol, with a 1 kB payload at 1000 requests per second using 1,2,4,8,16,32,64 client connections, 2 proxy workers and mutual TLS enabled.

Note: This testing was performed on the [CNCF Community Infrastructure Lab](https://github.com/cncf/cluster). Different hardware will give different values.

<p><h6 style="text-align: center;"> P90 latency vs client connections </h6></p>
<img width="90%" style="display: block; margin: auto;"
    src="istio-1.22.0-fortio-90.png"
    alt="P90 latency vs client connections"
    caption="P90 latency vs client connections"
/>
<br><br>
<p><h6 style="text-align: center;"> P99 latency vs client connections </h6></p>
<img width="90%" style="display: block; margin: auto;"
    src="istio-1.22.0-fortio-99.png"
    alt="P99 latency vs client connections"
    caption="P99 latency vs client connections"
/>
<br>

> - `no_mesh` Client pod directly calls the server pod, no pods in Istio service mesh.
> - `ambient: L4` default ambient mode with the secure overlay L4 only.
> - `ambient: L4+L7` default ambient mode with the secure overlay L4 and waypoints enabled for the namespace.
> - `sidecar` Client and server sidecars are present with telemetry configured by default. This is the default Istio configuration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `no_mesh`: Client pod directly calls the server pod, no pods in Istio service mesh.
- `ambient: L4`: Default ambient mode with the {{< gloss >}}secure L4 overlay{{< /gloss >}}
- `ambient: L4+L7` Default ambient mode with the secure L4 overlay and waypoints enabled for the namespace.
- `sidecar` Client and server sidecars.
```
